# Project Blog

The start of this project was spent getting initial idea and layout into Unity. This included creating a prefab for a placeholder object that I initialized and the logic and the logic for splitting the screen into equal parts in order to have evenly spaced objects. At this point in time moving them was no concern and I just wanted to be able to see what was happening, which I wasn't able to because I didn't initialize the objects as children. Fixing that did give me the visual I wanted, which is the objects centralized in the middle of the screen, evenly spaced out from left to right without clipping into either side of the screen.

After some contemplation I decided to use Update() function rather than the FixedUpdate(). FixedUpdate() would make the logic easier, but as I am also making use of this project to learn and practice I decided to use the framerate reliant function instead.

## Timers
In accordance with this choice I decided to introduce a large amount of timers. These timers are built as a set of 2 floats, one goal and one counter. This idea is built upon the fact that LERP uses a fraction to decide what point between 2 Vector3 points it should give back, so being able to divide the counter by the total gives us a fraction that we can use in order to get the position for each object every frame. As this takes place in the Update() function I'm also making use of Time.deltaTime to add to the counters. 

Not every counter starts ticking from the start, some are set to beging after eachother. In the cases where one timer relies on another to finish first, it checks for overflow on that earlier counter against the goal and then adds that overflow to the next counter. This ensures that each timer will always have the correct value. The current setup has 2 timers start ticking from the start, the one that overlays the numbers (more on that later, it doesn't actually do anything yet) and the one that counts the pre-wait. When the pre-wait finishes it starts the counter for the first set of objects that move and for the stagger, and once the stagger counter is maxed it starts on the second set. 

## Animation
As explained before, I can use the fraction given by the timers as well as the initial starting position and the ending position in order to smoothly move the object between the 2 points and have it end up at the end position at the correct time. There is no need to make sure that the counter is less than the timer as LERP caps out the fractions between 0 and 1, so any overflow isn't counted into the position. As there is no end positions yet, they all just move to the far left side of the screen - but the animation seems smooth and they all end up at the end location at the same time!

## First Set
The objects that move are split up into two sets, the first set which only includes two objects and the second set which includes the rest. The first set is mean to be the initial objects that move and that the rest of the objects have to adjust themselves to. In order to select which ones go into the first set we need to know two things: Will the movement be left or right, and by how much will the movement be? Based on this we know what objects can be moved around without moving out of the screen or to an index outside the range. From that set of objects we then ranodmize 2, one from the full range and one from a a reduced range. If they are the same, the object from the smaller range is then increased or decreased depending on the direction of the movement. This ensures that both objects will be different and stay inside the range, but also that either object could ne smaller or larger than the other.

One the two objects of the first set are select we use the direction and amount that we chose previously in order to see which index they will be ending up on, then we just the starting positions in order to get the ending position based off of the index. The first set is also moved down hierarchy in order to make sure they have visibly on top of the rest of the objects during the movement.

## Second Set
Once the ending positions for the first set has been decided it fills out the goal position. It does this by simply going through all the objects in set 2 and trying to apply them to the goal positions in left-to-right order. When a goal position is found that isn't used it gives it to the currently left-most value that has yet to be given an ending position. If the position is taken it skips to the next position. Through this the order of the second set is kept and that every box ends up in one of the ending positions.

## Highlighted objects
For the end result the participant will be seeing two highlighted objects and try to track their movement throughout the animation. To avoid trivial animations (such as being able to look at both moving objects or two objects that don't move) the program will make sure that one highlighted object will always be from the first set that always moves and the second set that might move. The color the objects will be randomized so the user can't enticipate the movement through the highlighted objects.

Three sprites were created: a gray box, a red box and a yellow box. After instantiated all objects are given the gray color and the highlighted objects are given the yellow and red colors. Once the pre-wait is over the highlighted objects are returned to the gray color. Both the highlighted objects and the objects in the first set are spatially offset from the rest on the z-axis. This does not affect the visual from the game view, but does affect the visual in the scene view. This will be used when recording to have an objective truth of where the highlighted objects started and ended.

## Overlaid numbers
Lastly, numbers were overlaid on top of the boxes by creating a new GameObject and placing those in order of left-to-right, 1-to-n objects. 
